Sm tei (#2130)
huggingface/blog: sagemaker-huggingface-embedding.md

---
title:  Introducing the Hugging Face Embedding Container for Amazon SageMaker
thumbnail: /blog/assets/sagemaker-huggingface-embedding/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: philschmid
- user: jeffboudier
---

# Introducing the Hugging Face Embedding Container for Amazon SageMaker

> We are excited to announce that the new Hugging Face Embedding Container for Amazon SageMaker is now generally available (GA). AWS customers can now efficiently deploy embedding models on SageMaker to Generative AI applications, particularly Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are excited to announce that the new Hugging Face Embedding Container for Amazon SageMaker is now generally available (GA). AWS customers can now efficiently deploy embedding models on SageMaker to build Generative AI applications, including Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) applications. 
```

In this Blog we will show you how to deploy open Embedding Models, like [Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-l](https://huggingface.co/Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-l), [BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5) or [sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2) to Amazon SageMaker for inference using the new Hugging Face Embedding Inference Container. We will deploy the [Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-m](https://huggingface.co/Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-m) one of the best open Embedding Models for retrieval and ranking on the [MTEB Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard). 

The example covers:

> - [What is Hugging Face Embedding Container?](#what-is-hugging-face-embedding-container)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [What is the Hugging Face Embedding Container?](#what-is-hugging-face-embedding-container)
```

- [1. Setup development environment](#1-setup-development-environment)
- [2. Retrieve the new Hugging Face Embedding Container](#2-retrieve-the-new-hugging-face-embedding-container)
- [3. Deploy Snowflake Arctic to Amazon SageMaker](#3-deploy-snowflake-arctic-to-amazon-sagemaker)
- [4. Run and evaluate Inference performance](#4-run-and-evaluate-inference-performance)
- [5. Delete model and endpoint](#5-delete-model-and-endpoint)

> ## What is Hugging Face Embedding Container?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the Hugging Face Embedding Container?
```

* Optimized transformers code for inference using Flash Attention, Candle and cuBLASLt
* Safetensors weight loading
* Production ready (distributed tracing with Open Telemetry, Prometheus metrics)

TEI supports the following model architectures
* BERT/CamemBERT, e.g. [BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5) or [Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-m](https://huggingface.co/Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-m)
* RoBERTa, [sentence-transformers/all-roberta-large-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-roberta-large-v1) 
* XLM-RoBERTa, e.g. [sentence-transformers/paraphrase-xlm-r-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/paraphrase-xlm-r-multilingual-v1)
* NomicBert, e.g. [jinaai/jina-embeddings-v2-base-en](https://huggingface.co/jinaai/jina-embeddings-v2-base-en)
* JinaBert, e.g. [nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5](https://huggingface.co/nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5)

Lets get started!

## 1. Setup development environment

We are going to use the `sagemaker` python SDK to deploy Snowflake Arctic to Amazon SageMaker. We need to make sure to have an AWS account configured and the `sagemaker` python SDK installed. 

> ```python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

!pip install "sagemaker>=2.221.1" --upgrade --quiet
```

> If you are going to use Sagemaker in a local environment. You need access to an IAM Role with the required permissions for Sagemaker. You can find [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/sagemaker-roles.html) more about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are going to use Sagemaker in a local environment, you need access to an IAM Role with the required permissions for Sagemaker. You can find out more about it [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/sagemaker-roles.html).
```

```python
import sagemaker
import boto3
sess = sagemaker.Session()
# sagemaker session bucket -> used for uploading data, models and logs

> # sagemaker will automatically create this bucket if it not exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# sagemaker will automatically create this bucket if it does not exist
```

```python
import json
from sagemaker.huggingface import HuggingFaceModel

# sagemaker config
instance_type = "ml.g5.xlarge"

# Define Model and Endpoint configuration parameter
config = {
  'HF_MODEL_ID': "Snowflake/snowflake-arctic-embed-m", # model_id from hf.co/models
}

# create HuggingFaceModel with the image uri
emb_model = HuggingFaceModel(
  role=role,
  image_uri=get_image_uri(instance_type),
  env=config
)
```

After we have created the `HuggingFaceModel` we can deploy it to Amazon SageMaker using the `deploy` method. We will deploy the model with the `ml.c6i.2xlarge` instance type.

```python
# Deploy model to an endpoint
# https://sagemaker.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/inference/model.html#sagemaker.model.Model.deploy
emb = emb_model.deploy(
  initial_instance_count=1,
  instance_type=instance_type,
)

```

> SageMaker will now create our endpoint and deploy the model to it. This can takes  ~5 minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SageMaker will now create our endpoint and deploy the model to it. This can take  ~5 minutes. 
```

## 4. Run and evaluate Inference performance

After our endpoint is deployed we can run inference on it. We will use the `predict` method from the `predictor` to run inference on our endpoint.

```python
data = {
  "inputs": "the mesmerizing performances of the leads keep the film grounded and keep the audience riveted .",
}
 
res = emb.predict(data=data)
 
 
# print some results
print(f"length of embeddings: {len(res[0])}")
print(f"first 10 elements of embeddings: {res[0][:10]}")
```

Awesome we can now generate embeddings with our model, Lets test the performance of our model.

> We will send 3,900 requests to our endpoint use threading with 10 concurrent threads. We will measure the average latency and throughput of our endpoint. We are going to sent an input of 256 tokens to have a total of ~1 Million tokens. We decided to use 256 tokens as input length to find the balance between shorter and longer inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will send 3,900 requests to our endpoint and use threading with 10 concurrent threads. We will measure the average latency and throughput of our endpoint. We are going to send an input of 256 tokens for a total of ~1 Million tokens. We decided to use 256 tokens as input length to find the right balance between shorter and longer inputs.
```

Note: When running the load test, the requests are sent from europe and the endpoint is deployed in us-east-1. This adds a network overhead to it.

```python
import threading
import time
number_of_threads = 10
number_of_requests = int(3900 // number_of_threads)
print(f"number of threads: {number_of_threads}")
print(f"number of requests per thread: {number_of_requests}")
 

> def send_rquests():
>     for _ in range(number_of_requests):
>         # input counted at https://huggingface.co/spaces/Xenova/the-tokenizer-playground for 100 tokens
>         emb.predict(data={"inputs": "Hugging Face is a company and a popular platform in the field of natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning. They are known for their contributions to the development of state-of-the-art models for various NLP tasks and for providing a platform that facilitates the sharing and usage of pre-trained models. One of the key offerings from Hugging Face is the Transformers library, which is an open-source library for working with a variety of pre-trained transformer models, including those for text generation, translation, summarization, question answering, and more. The library is widely used in the research and development of NLP applications and is supported by a large and active community. Hugging Face also provides a model hub where users can discover, share, and download pre-trained models. Additionally, they offer tools and frameworks to make it easier for developers to integrate and use these models in their own projects. The company has played a significant role in advancing the field of NLP and making cutting-edge models more accessible to the broader community. Hugging Face also provides a model hub where users can discover, share, and download pre-trained models. Additionally, they offer tools and frameworks to make it easier for developers and ma"})
>  
> # Create multiple threads
> threads = [threading.Thread(target=send_rquests) for _ in range(number_of_threads) ]

Reviewer 2: minor nit, not sure if a typo or intended (send_rquests to send_requests)

```suggestion
def send_requests():
    for _ in range(number_of_requests):
        # input counted at https://huggingface.co/spaces/Xenova/the-tokenizer-playground for 100 tokens
        emb.predict(data={"inputs": "Hugging Face is a company and a popular platform in the field of natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning. They are known for their contributions to the development of state-of-the-art models for various NLP tasks and for providing a platform that facilitates the sharing and usage of pre-trained models. One of the key offerings from Hugging Face is the Transformers library, which is an open-source library for working with a variety of pre-trained transformer models, including those for text generation, translation, summarization, question answering, and more. The library is widely used in the research and development of NLP applications and is supported by a large and active community. Hugging Face also provides a model hub where users can discover, share, and download pre-trained models. Additionally, they offer tools and frameworks to make it easier for developers to integrate and use these models in their own projects. The company has played a significant role in advancing the field of NLP and making cutting-edge models more accessible to the broader community. Hugging Face also provides a model hub where users can discover, share, and download pre-trained models. Additionally, they offer tools and frameworks to make it easier for developers and ma"})
 
# Create multiple threads
threads = [threading.Thread(target=send_requests) for _ in range(number_of_threads) ]
```
